## Fitness_Assay_Package

### To use the Lang Lab Fitness Assay Package: 

from the R console 
`library(devtools)`  

`install_github("LangYeastEvoLab/FitnessAssayAnalysis")`

- devtools is installed on the lab computer, but may need to be installed on your personal computer

### Package dependencies
- reshape2
- ggplot2

### Input data format

This script is based on inputs generated by FlowJo and a user supplied well key that identifies the competitions. 
*Note - when reading in data - stringsAsFactors=FALSE!!*<br/>

A Well_key and FC_data template can be found as txt files in this repository. Well_key column names *must* match the provided template. 


### Functions

### Analyze_Fitness_Data
`output <- Analyze_Fitness_Data(your well_key, your_flow_data)` 
- cacluates the coefficient of selection of a query strain using time-course compettive growth assay flow cytometry data
- output is a table of selection coefficient, standard error, and 95% CI for each competition or replicate group

      `Group replicates? (TRUE/FALSE):` 

- The well key supplied will be used to look for any duplicate competitions. If `TRUE`, grouping replicates will treat all competitions with identical strain identifiers as biological replicates (columns 2-4 in the well  key are identical). The coefficient of selection for each replicate group will be found by fitting a linear model based on all data points within a replicate. 
- If `FALSE`, each sample will be treated individually. Coefficient of selection will be found by fitting a linear model for each individual sample. 
*Replicates MUST be named identically in the well key.*

      `Calculate error? (TRUE/FALSE):` 

- If you have multiple replicates (`TRUE` for `Group replicates?`), the script will find the standard error of regression and 95% CI by fitting a linear model based on all data points within a replicate. 
*Replicates MUST be named identically in the well key.*
- If you do not have replicates of individual competitions (`FALSE` for `Group replicates?`), this method will assign each fitness measurement an error based on the error of regression for each individual sample. 

      `Plot results? (TRUE/FALSE):` 

- For no replicates, each sample will be plotted individually with error bars corresponding to 95% CI. 
- If you have replicates, each replicate will be plotted as one point with error bars corresponding to 95% CI

 ### Fitness_ANCOVA
 `output<-Fitness_ANCOVA(your well_key, your_flow_data)` 
- Uses an ANCOVA (analysis of covariance) to look for statistical differences in slope between competitions.
- User options remain the same as `Analyze_Fitness_Data`. 
- Output is a summary of the ANCOVA on the linear models of all competitions. If there are significant differences amongst competitions, the console will print out a message indicating that. 

### Fitness_ANCOVA_post_hoc
`output<- Fitness_ANCOVA_post_hoc(output_of_Fitness_ANCOVA)`
- output of `Fitness_ANCOVA` can be fed into `Fitness_ANCOVA_post_hoc` *if* the former finds a significant interaction of competition and generation on fitness. 
- will perform a TUKEY HSD post hoc test to find pairwise differences in your data 
- output generated will be a table of all pairwise comparisons and their individual p values 
- significant results will also print to the console. 



